Erstwhile on Fargo...
Hi.
Mommy?
I'm so happy to see you.
Who's Sheriff Roy?
I need to leave Scotty here
for a few days.
Two, three, maybe.
Tops.
I got to do something.
She's not safe.
You find her?
Dad, come on.
You're not paying this guy.
Solve it with a bullet, not...
We tried killing him.
Now we're bailing water
out of a sinking boat.
We need to take luck
out of the equation. Period.
End of story.
We have business.
Now, I didn't make your deal,
but if I had,
I would have been clear.
That woman's like a tick.
Can't crush her,
can't pull her out clean.
Suffocation is the key.
Probably ought
to let her be, but...
Happy now, shitbird?
You got your money?
I'll see you soon, asshole.
Jesus Christ.
Ma!
I'm coming, I'm coming. Geez.
Don't break the door down.
I'm freezing my balls off
out there, Ma,
waiting for you to get
off your fat ass and...
Why you got to say that, huh?
Like I'm some kind
of deadbeat, huh?
Make me a fucking sandwich.
A setup is what it is.
Check in every week, get a job,
but nobody's hiring.
Piss in a cup, stay clean.
I need a fucking smoke.
God. These fucking guys.
Fucking guys. I'm telling you...
Use the spicy mustard and, uh,
don't Jew me on the meat.
Uh-huh.
Six bucks? What the fuck, Ma?
Disability check comes in
on the eighth.
You tell me how to stretch it.
Maybe don't buy a hundred
six-packs of beer, eh?
Whoa. What the fuck, Ma?
Who the fuck is this?
I live here now.
What? A... a boarder?
You holding out on me, Ma?
How much is he paying you?
Trade.
- What?
- No payment.
Trade.
What kind of trade?
That sounds like bullshit.
Like the dog in the yard.
We guard the house.
Is he for real, Ma?
Listen up, shitbird.
Your freeloading days are over.
Landlord's here now, so you're
gonna pay for room and board
or I'm gonna cut you
a new suck hole.
Or how about I call the law,
tell them you're taking
advantage of a poor old widow.
Either way, you better show me
some cheddar pronto.
Fuckin' A.
Same amount every month, huh?
Got to go, Ma. Forgot a thing.
Fuckin' A.
♪ Dark clouds, heavy debris ♪
♪ I know what it's like ♪
♪ To love me ♪
♪ You lost your home
in the storm ♪
♪ Baby, when I rain, I pour ♪
♪ Sorry to displace
your spirit ♪
♪ You're probably not ready
to hear this ♪
♪ You got to know ♪
♪ Wherever you go ♪
♪ I'll be right there
beside you ♪
♪ When your heart breaks ♪
♪ Baby, when
your earth quakes ♪
♪ Call me and I'll
come to find you ♪
♪ 'Cause you can't
escape my love ♪
♪ You can't escape my love ♪
♪ It's a hurri--♪
♪ Pull the string
and I'll wink at you ♪
♪ I'm your puppet ♪
♪ I'll do funny things
if you want me to ♪
♪ I'm your puppet ♪
♪ Mm ♪
♪ I'm yours
to have and to hold ♪
♪ Darling, you've got
full control ♪
♪ Of your puppet ♪
♪ Pull another string
and I'll kiss your lips ♪
♪ I'm your puppet ♪
Anywhere you like.
♪ Snap your finger
and I'll turn you some flips ♪
♪ I'm your puppet ♪
Cream and sugar, I'm guessing.
Please.
Sugar's by the ketchup.
To or from?
- Sorry?
- Are you heading
to something
or away from something?
Home.
As in your going home
or running away from home?
Are your pancakes any good?
Best in the county.
Oh.
♪ I'll be wonderful ♪
♪ Do just what I'm told ♪
♪ I'll do anything for you ♪
♪ I'm your puppet ♪
Let me know if you need
anything else.
Oh, shit.
No.
Shoot.
Stupid, ugly, clumsy.
Whore.
I'm sorry. I made a mistake.
It won't happen again.
I promise.
Please. Please calm down.
It-it was an accident.
Don't touch me.
I'll kill you.
Good morning, Lindas.
Breakfast is now being served
in the main lodge.
This morning, we have...
Said the baby bear
to the mama bear,
"Someone's been sleeping
in my bed."
"She's still there."
I'm looking for Linda.
You found her.
No, that's...
She was Tillman, my Linda.
Linda Tillman.
That's her married name?
I had one of those, too.
Most of us did.
Husbands' names,
boyfriends' names.
Now we're just Lindas.
Or variations.
I earned my first
new letter last week,
so you can call me Lindo.
I don't understand.
When you leave a man
who abuses and controls you
and you find this place,
you take on a new name.
A transition name. Linda.
But my Linda
was named Linda before.
Oh.
That Linda.
She sent me a postcard.
Can I ask
what that was last night?
Some kind of puppet show?
Hungry?
It's a beautiful day.
Welcome, Linda.
Why am I so tired?
It's kind of a death,
what they do to us.
Our men.
The way they make us
feel about ourselves.
No, that's...
I love my husband.
It's been ten years of bliss.
Honestly, I'm not here
about him.
This is a long-ago story
come back to haunt me.
Hi, Linda.
That's why I need her help.
My Linda.
Saint Linda.
That's what we call her.
Oh, you're serious.
Welcome, Linda.
- Welcome, Linda.
This is the main house,
where we gather for meals
and conversation.
All of it, she built--
Saint Linda--
so we could come and be reborn.
And every week,
one of us leaves,
but she stays.
- Welcome, Linda.
You say you knew her before?
She took me in
when I was on the street.
Mm.
So like a mother.
More like a Venus flytrap.
What?
- Hello, Linda.
- Hi, Lindo.
Welcome, Linda.
Is she here?
I'd really like to say hello.
Sure.
Linda, I have a visitor here
that wants to pay tribute.
Nadine.
- Let go of me. Let--
- No, don't hurt her.
- It's okay.
- Let go of me!
It's okay.
You must think I deserve that.
We can talk about that
in the car.
Am I going someplace?
Get your stuff.
He found me. Roy.
I need you to come
and tell the cops
about all the bad he did
when you were married
so they can put him in jail.
Nadine--
It's Dorothy now. Dot.
So you made the puppet.
What?
I can't leave.
They need me here.
I need you more, and you owe me.
I gave you a home,
three meals a day.
What could I possibly owe you?
You used me.
You fed me to him
so you could escape.
We both made choices.
You left your boy, too.
Gator.
And just so I know,
do you have children?
I've got a daughter.
Where is she?
So you left her, too.
No.
I came to get you so we can...
I'm going back.
A trial.
- We need to have a trial.
- Yes.
No. What does that...
I don't have time.
When there are
two versions of the truth,
we have to reconcile them,
so we hold a tribunal.
I've told my truth already.
You tell yours,
and the Lindas will watch
and help us find the true truth.
It's the only way.
Fine. I'll tell the truth.
No.
First, you make your puppet.
Name two mammals that lay eggs.
I don't think that's
how homework works.
Platypus.
Okay.
And like a spiny anteater.
How do you...
Would you look at that.
Boss.
I got a family here with
their hearts set on a new Rio.
Well, heck of a nice car.
Oh, yeah.
Uh, ran their credit, though.
- Not gonna happen.
- Well, that's a shame.
"Echidnas, sometimes known
as spiny anteaters,
are quill-covered monotremes."
Huh. Have you seen these things?
It's, uh,
a mammal that lays eggs.
- Geez.
- Yeah.
Well, like I said,
even with their trade-in--
and they got a 2005 Sportage
in pretty good shape--
uh, they don't qualify.
Oh.
It's a nice-looking family.
- Right?
- Hmm.
Unless, uh,
a car for a car.
Just trade.
E-Except that's not really
how capitalism works.
A car for a car.
- Right, but--
- Because what do we do here?
Well, we sell--
Well, people need a car,
and they-they come to us.
- To buy--
- Yeah, well, you said yourself,
the 2005's in good shape.
Yeah, but, boss,
Blue Book on that's 6,200--
So we trade.
And-and the Rio, that's--
- How many eggs does the, uh--
- 19,500.
- The spiny anteater?
- Boss?
It says one egg makes a baby
the size of a jelly bean.
Um, so--
Well, you were
more of a jelly donut.
- So, on the-- Boss?
- What kind of jelly?
- On the--
- Raspberry.
So, on the Rio--
- Huh?
- The Rio?
Oh, we-we solved that,
I thought.
Give a car, get a car.
Each has received a gift,
use it to serve one another.
That's in the Bible. Right?
Sure, then. Okay.
Congratulations.
Can we get doughnuts?
Sure can.
And bear claws for your mom.
Is she back?
No, hon. Sorry.
I-I got confused.
No, Mom is, uh...
She's still out there.
Maybe skip the doughnuts, then.
She'd want us
to eat a vegetable.
Yeah, she would.
Come here.
This is your workstation.
Choose the wood, make the doll,
dress the doll,
choose some hair and makeup.
And then the final step.
They've already
come for me twice.
And my family.
You tell your story,
through the puppet,
and in this way,
you expel the trauma
so you can start again.
Then you take
your new name and leave.
I've done this. I have a name.
Start by examining the wood,
really see yourself in it.
For some, this process
takes weeks, months.
This is...
I am the me I want to be.
I'm here to do something.
I know.
I have to make this doll, yeah?
There's no way around it?
If you want to tell your story.
I don't.
I want to take Linda and go.
The next step
is to saw the wood,
soften its edges for shaping.
Can I carve?
I feel like you're rushing.
No shit.
Cheers.
Come here.
We take turns who runs the meal.
Family recipes.
It was Belin's turn tonight.
Who doesn't like
a good chicken piccata?
How about you?
Do you have
a go-to for the rotation?
Something that always
hits the spot?
Well, my Wayne
likes shepherd's pie.
Mmm.
And Scotty, she likes
breakfast for dinner.
- Pancakes and the like.
- Mm.
What do you like?
I like all of it.
Oh, and Sister Schubert.
She makes those rolls, you pop
'em just right in the oven.
- Oh, yeah.
- Mm.
You haven't asked about him.
Gator.
He's trying, I think.
He's got to be, what, 27 now?
You can see it in his eyes,
he wants to be good.
But more than that,
he wants to be like his dad.
You see things clearly, dear.
You always did.
Look,
I think it's wonderful
what you're doing here.
This place you've made
for suffering.
But I don't need a doll
to say what's on my mind.
Maybe I could have used one
before Wayne and this new life,
but I am in control now.
I know who I am
and what's important.
So if there's any way
that we could skip--
It's not gonna work, dear.
You came here to confront me,
the things you think I did,
what happened after I was gone.
This is the process.
You wouldn't be here
if you didn't need to be here.
I came for you.
And to take you back to testify.
And what I'm saying is
you need to testify first.
Then we can decide if
I should go or you should stay.
Now, eat your piccata.
Ole Munch on this.
Got you, fucker.
Yes.
Fuck.
No fucking way.
Thief!
Whoa!
Monster! Don't!
Ow!
Dad?
Yeah, babe.
It's bedtime.
Uh-huh.
You got to read.
I got to read.
Oh, wait. It-it's bedtime.
That's what I said.
Yeah.
I got to read.
All right, move over, you.
Where's the book?
What?
The book.
What do you mean?
It's, uh... it's right here.
You can't see it?
- You're silly.
- Yeah.
Hold that for a sec.
All right.
Here we go.
Chapter One: The Hero.
Once upon a time...
...there was a girl named Dot.
Dorothy.
She was the sun's favorite.
You know, the, uh...
the sun?
And everywhere she went,
there were rainbows.
-"Dorothy." Like Mom?
- Mm-hmm.
And she could do anything,
our Dorothy.
You know, she could,
uh, climb a tree.
She could, uh,
wrestle an alligator.
And everyone she met,
she put a smile on their face.
But the darkness
hates the light,
and the ugly things
come out at night.
And so she, our Dot...
...in order to save
the rainbows,
she had to go fight
against the darkness.
Screw it.
And leave the, uh...
the flowers and the birds
at home.
Her family, I'm saying.
Because until you go someplace,
you can't come home.
Look at you, up and at 'em.
This puppet's not
gonna make itself.
♪ I've got lovin'
in the palm of my hand ♪
♪ Sometimes troubles
that never seem to end ♪
♪ Got a girl or two
comin' after me ♪
♪ Sometimes seems I've got
all that I need ♪
♪ Every day's the same ♪
♪ Seems like some things
never change ♪
♪ Been a long time runnin'♪
♪ One thing I know, man ♪
♪ I've sure got
a long way to go.♪
We welcome you, our sister.
Let us gather now
to hear your testimony.
She has come here to share
her struggle and her pain.
Let no one challenge
or interrupt our sister.
The truth she speaks
is her truth,
and we will hear it all.
Before this,
before I was a mother
and a wife
and a different wife,
I was a girl.
All skinned knees
and make-believe.
And then I got my monthly,
and the wolves came.
And once I was running,
I ran away from everything.
Home,
boys,
the future.
Oh, no, you don't.
And that's when I met Linda.
Now, Carl,
you take your hands
off that girl.
She's with me.
Sorry, Ms. Tillman. It's just,
I caught her putting
chocolate chips in her pocket.
Well, where else
is she supposed to put 'em?
You got rid of all the baskets.
When she heard I had
nowhere else to go,
Linda took me home.
Look what I got
at the grocery store.
Can we keep her, Dad? Can we?
What's your name, sunshine?
Nadine.
Yeah? Like the song?
♪ Oh, Nadine,
honey, is that you?♪
I was 15,
and he didn't look at me
like a wolf.
He was big and stern like a dad,
but funny.
If she's gonna stay here,
she's gonna work for her supper,
same as everybody else.
What she needs is
to finish her education.
Spend an hour with the studs
at breeding time,
and you can learn
a whole hell of a lot.
Ow.
Well, I can read with her,
but, Roy,
you're so much better at math
and science and the like,
so really, you should teach her.
You see how that happened?
How she pushed me towards him,
made sure we could be alone?
Things were bad for Linda, then.
Bitch.
Stupid bitch.
But that's no excuse
for what happened next.
So, you carry the seven.
See how that works?
Uh-huh.
Not so dumb after all, are you?
No.
Pretty, too.
I bet you get your pick
of all the boys.
Don't get shy
on me now, darling.
We're peas in a pod, you and me.
Why don't you come
sit on my lap?
The next day,
Roy said Linda had to go
visit her sister
and that I was the woman
of the house till she got back.
You tell me she didn't know
what was gonna happen.
Saw you limping a little before.
You okay?
I just...
twisted my ankle a little.
Here. Let me see.
Here I am. Home again.
Was it awful without me?
Oh, no, we had a swell time.
Didn't we, Nadine?
It got worse after that.
He'd beat Linda every night
and then come to me
smelling like sweat
and cigarettes.
And then she was gone.
Packed a bag, Roy said,
and left in the wee hours.
But he wasn't sad, he said,
because he had me.
And what we had was true love.
And then I
was his puppet.
Thank you for that.
It wasn't easy to hear,
but we heard it.
And so,
you've earned a new name.
What'll it be?
I'm Dorothy.
Dorothy Lyon.
So,
I will go with you.
And we can face him together.
You ready?
I am.
I'm sorry for leaving you.
I really am.
I know.
He would have killed you.
He tried to kill me.
Fight or flight, they call it.
I just wish...
Why didn't you take us with you?
It's okay.
You'll tell me
when you're ready.
All that matters is
thank you for doing this.
This life I've fought
so hard for.
I'll be grateful.
Linda?
You're awake.
No, don't strain yourself.
You hit your head
pretty hard there.
My friend.
Who?
The woman. In my car.
The Kia. Is she okay?
Oh, I don't know, hon.
You came in by yourself.
But I--
I'll go let your husband
know you're awake.
He'll be so happy to hear.
Wayne's here?
Mm-hmm.
It took us a beat
to identify you.
You're very lucky.
He's barely left your side.
That sounds like my Wayne.
Yeah. Easy on the eyes, too.
I'll go fetch him for you, hon.
Thank you.
Nadine.
You had us worried sick.
I got you.
Now I get it.